## v0.1 Hardware Finalizations

### Battery

From the last article, it was clear I'd be exploring using a 1.5V cell to power everything. While I'm keen to try that out in the future, the goal of using the 1.5V cell was for compatibility reasons (everyone has a AA battery at home), but the workaround of stepping that voltage up to 3.3V for the ESP32 was turning out to be a pretty big hassle. And while the wifi thermometer project is power sipping at most, some other future projects relating to this thermometer would require more power reserves, so I began to rethink the idea of putting a 1.5V cell in my design. 

If all we're going for is compatibility, a simple [18650 lithium 3.7V cell](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/18650_battery) would achieve the same thing. The most popular lithium battery form-factor. They're very cheap, easy to access, and there are chargers for these batteries which are also easily accessible. This means that I can move away from the boost converter I shared in the last post and instead move my focus to a LDO voltage regulator. I just built the [Smart Knob](/articles/smart-knob) which used [this 3.3V LDO regulator](https://www.ti.com/product/TLV1117LV) which supplies power to the ESP32, which would work perfectly for my needs. 

Additionally, my boost converter PCBs have been stuck in customs for over a week, so I'm not that sad about abandoning the other boost chip.

### Button

On the thermometer, there does need to be some sort of input device present. I've not gone into too much detail about the UX or firmware design, but it will essentially work just like every other 2.4GHz wifi-enabled device. You'll connect it to your phone via bluetooth, send over the wifi credentials, then you can disconnect the bluetooth and start sending data via HTTP calls.

To initiate the bluetooth pairing sequence, there needs to be some sort of input device on the thermometer itself, so I added a single button which will control this process. There may be other use cases in the future that require some sort of input in order to complete the product UX, but with this one button we can be resourceful and use it for multiple purposes.

### LED

Along the lines of adding an input mechanism to the device, a single LED mounted on the PCB should suffice for an output. I've not decided on whether this will be an RGB LED or just a single color, but both would work in this case. RGB would allow for color-driven outputs while the same could be achieved with a single LED and using multiple pulses.


### Initial PCB Design

Here is the initial PCB design. It's still missing some important parts (+/- power pads), but I'm working to finalize those and will send this off for fabrication soon!

<model-viewer alt="v0.1-wifi-therm-pcb" src="/wifi-thermometer/pcb-v0.1-pcb.gltf" shadow-intensity="1" camera-controls camera-orbit="45deg 55deg 4m" stouch-action="pan-y"></model-viewer>
